Path-Finder Instruction Manual


INTRODUCTION

Path-Finder is a program created to make learning and teaching of path-finding
algorithms easier for students and teachers.

The program allows you to visualise the steps taken by each of the algorithms as
they complete their traversals, with either a graph or a grid view.
The algorithms perform the same steps when in grid or graph view, but using both
allows you to understand how they work in different ways.

*** NOTES:
- Currently the A* algorithm is only available in grid view and the others are
only available in graph view, with the extra options only currently working in
grid view also.

- Manual mode does not yet work for A* algorithm.
***

Extra: The graph's values can be edited using the adjacency matrix in the .txt
file named 'matrix_values'.


AUTOMATIC MODE

1. Simply select your algorithm and enter a start or start and end node when in
graph view, or click on a cell on the grid twice to select it as the start or
three times to select it as the end. Clicking once will set it as a wall.
[Each cell on the grid uses a modulo operation to loop states which means that
 you can cycle through the four possible states by clicking as many times as
 you'd like]


2. You can select different parameters for the A* algorithm only.

2.1. You can choose the heuristic technique used by the A* algorithm by selecting
the method of distance calculation it uses. Changing this may give a very different
path or may result in the same path.

2.2. You can toggle diagonals on or off for the A* algorithm. Allowing diagonals
will result in all 8 neighbouring nodes being evaluated instead of only the four
adjacent nodes being evaluated for each working node, which is the default
behaviour.
Note that single width diagonal walls are able to be 'hopped-over' when diagonals
are enabled.

2.3. The final option for the A* algorithm is to display the distances between
nodes as costs as the algorithm evaluates each node. The format is shown below:
-----
|G H|        G cost = Distance node is from start node
|  F  |        H cost = Distance node is from end node
-----        F cost = Sum of G+H

Note that the way the numbers are rounded may make it look like the calculations
are off but it is likely just due to the formatting of the decimal part.


3. Press START when you would like to run the selected algorithm with your chosen
parameters.


MANUAL MODE

1. Instructions are same as above, except the manual mode selection can be ticked.
This will result in an instruction window popping up below the second window.
It will display the current step that the algorithm is about to complete.

2. The NEXT STEP button can be pressed to progress to the next step in the
process until the end is reached.